# LITA-capstone-project
---

## PROJECT TITLE: SALES PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS FOR A RETAIL SORE
---

### PROJECT OVERVIEW
---
This project aims to analyze the sales performance of a retail store. I seek to explore the sales data to uncover key insights such as top-selling products, regional
performance, and monthly sales trends.

### DATA SOURCES
---
The source of this data was generated by the facilitators of the LITA PROGRAM for the capstone project

### TOOLS USED
---
- SQL Structured Query Language for data entry, data querying and data cleaning 
- Microsoft Excel for data analysis, data validation and Data visualization 
- GitHub for Portfolio building
- Microsoft word for report writing 

### 	DATA CLEANING AND PREPARATION
---
In the Initial phase of Data cleaning and preparation, I performed the following actions;
1.  Data loading and inspection
2.  Handling missing variables
3.  Data cleaning and formatting
4. Removing duplicates
5. Data importation into SQL

###  	EXPLORATORY DATA ANALYSIS
---
This involved the exploring of the data to answer some questions about the data such as;
- total sales by product, region, and month.
- the highest-selling product by total sales value.
- the  total revenue per product.
- the monthly sales totals for the current year.
- the top 5 customers by total purchase amount.
- the percentage of total sales contributed by each region.
- identify products with no sales in the last quarter.

###  DATA ANALYSIS
---
This is where I inputed some basic line of functions and queries like;

~~~ MS EXCEL
    =AVERAGEIF(D2:D50001,D2,H2:H50001)
~~~
